
# snSMART

![Github All
Releases](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/sidiwang/snSMART/total.svg)

The aim of the **snSMART** R package is to consolidate data simulation,
sample size calculation and analysis functions for several snSMART
(small sample sequential, multiple assignment, randomized trial) designs
under one library.

An snSMART is a multi-stage trial design where for a two-stage design,
randomization in the second stage depends on the outcome to first stage
treatment. snSMART designs require that the same outcome is measured at
the end of the first stage and at the end of the second stage.
Additionally, the length of the first stage of the trial must be the
same amount of time as the length for the second stage. snSMARTs are
motivated by obtaining more information from a small sample of
individuals with the primary goal to identify the superior first stage
treatment or dosage level using both stages of data. Data are shared
across the two stages of the snSMART design to more precisely estimate
the effect of the treatments given in the first stage.

## Installation

You can download and install **snSMART** with:

``` r
# Install devtools first if you haven't done so
library(devtools)
# install snSMART
devtools::install_github("sidiwang/snSMART")
library(snSMART)
```

## snSMART designs and functions covered in this package

-   snSMART with binary outcome (3 active treatments or placebo and 2
    dose level, non-responders re-randomized)
    -   Bayesian Joint Stage Model (BJSM) analysis function -
        `BJSM_binary`
    -   Log Poisson Joint Stage Model (JSRM) analysis function -
        `JSRM_binary`
    -   sample size calculation function - `sample_size`
    -   Group Sequential snSMART BJSM analysis function - `group_seq`
-   snSMART with mapping function (3 active treatments, re-randomization
    depends on continuous outcome at stage 1; continuous outcomes)
    -   BJSM analysis function - `BJSM_c`

## References

Chao, Y.C., Trachtman, H., Gipson, D.S., Spino, C., Braun, T.M. and
Kidwell, K.M., 2020. Dynamic treatment regimens in small n, sequential,
multiple assignment, randomized trials: An application in focal
segmental glomerulosclerosis. Contemporary clinical trials, 92,
p.105989.

Chao, Y.C., Braun, T.M., Tamura, R.N. and Kidwell, K.M., 2020. A
Bayesian group sequential small n sequential multiple‚Äêassignment
randomized trial. Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series C
(Applied Statistics), 69(3), pp.663-680.

Fang, F., Hochstedler, K.A., Tamura, R.N., Braun, T.M. and Kidwell,
K.M., 2021. Bayesian methods to compare dose levels with placebo in a
small n, sequential, multiple assignment, randomized trial. Statistics
in Medicine, 40(4), pp.963-977.

Hartman, H., Tamura, R.N., Schipper, M.J. and Kidwell, K.M., 2021.
Design and analysis considerations for utilizing a mapping function in a
small sample, sequential, multiple assignment, randomized trials with
continuous outcomes. Statistics in Medicine, 40(2), pp.312-326.

Wei, B., Braun, T.M., Tamura, R.N. and Kidwell, K., 2020. Sample size
determination for Bayesian analysis of small n sequential, multiple
assignment, randomized trials (snSMARTs) with three agents. Journal of
Biopharmaceutical Statistics, 30(6), pp.1109-1120.

Wei, B., Braun, T.M., Tamura, R.N. and Kidwell, K.M., 2018. A Bayesian
analysis of small n sequential multiple assignment randomized trials
(snSMARTs). Statistics in medicine, 37(26), pp.3723-3732.
